WCAG 2.0 Introduction

1. World Wide Web Consortium
2. WEB CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES
3. Principles, Guidelines, and Techniques

Four Principles(P.O.U.R)
1. Perceivable
2. Operable
3. Understandable
4. Robust

PERCEIVABLE
1. Making your site or app Perceivable.
2. Make sure that we provide appropriate content for all users regardless of disabilities or accessibilty challenges.
3. Consise description in "alt" attribute.
4. Avoiding color for color blindness, use text labels or patterns.
5. Set appropriate contrast ratios
6. 5:1 Ratio(e.g. black text on white background)
7. Use online tools to check contrast
8. Avoid Auto-Play

OPERABLE
1. Making your site Operable
2. Do eveything on a Keyboard you can do with a Mouse
3. Keyboard Navigation Goals
4. Getting through navigation links and sections
5. Getting into and out of search and form fields easily
6. Navigation through Forms
7. Avoiding Seizures
8. Flashing or blinking content may cause seizures
9. Warnings don't work because they often ignored or overlooked.
10.Flashing or Blinking content is Bas UX and UI
11.Time Restraints - Give your user plenty of time to complete tasks

UNDERSTANDABLE
1. Making your site understandable
2. Makie sure our content is digestaible by everyone even those with accessibility concerns and especially those with cognitive disabilities
3. Avoid these - Unusual words, Abbreviations, Jargon, Acronyms
4. if unavoidable the define.
5. Writing to a 9th grade reading level
6. Use shorter paragraphs
7. 2-3 sentence paragraphs.
8. Each sentence about 15 words.
9. Use Tools to check.
10.Forms best practices.
11.Make sure Page focus is always visible
12.Clearly identify input errors and suggest fixes.
13.Avoid Color only to indicate Errors.
14.Clearly label elements and give instructions.
15.Labels on top, Instructions on Bottom
16.Provide help option

ROBUST
1. Making your site robust.
2. Make sure our site or app works with all agents and assistive technology.
3. Screen readers present information ina linear fashion.
4. Content must make sense out of context.
5. Find balance between real estate, aesthetics and descriptive usability.
6. Do headers make sense out of context?
7. Do the first couple of sentences in a paragraph make sense?
8. Are we using familiar items for their intended purposes?
